{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red224\green219\blue213;\red239\green237\blue236;\red105\green0\blue21;\red0\green0\blue0;\red148\green108\blue71;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red133\green0\blue67;\red135\green135\blue135;\red207\green199\blue189;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c90196\c88627\c86667;\cssrgb\c94902\c94510\c94118;\cssrgb\c49412\c4314\c10588;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c65098\c49804\c34902;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c49804;\cssrgb\c60000\c0\c33333;\cssrgb\c60000\c60000\c60000;\cssrgb\c84706\c81961\c78824;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14560\viewh11820\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \

\fs48 RASPBERRY pi  \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/"}}{\fldrslt https://www.raspberrypi.org/}}\

\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa400\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Raspbian
\f1\b0 \'a0is our official operating system for\'a0
\f0\b all
\f1\b0 \'a0models of the Raspberry Pi. Download it {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspbian/"}}{\fldrslt here}}, or use\'a0
\f0\b NOOBS
\f1\b0 , our easy installer for Raspbian and more.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\ri200\sl400\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 \cb4 SSH USING LINUX OR MAC OS
\f1\b0 \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/remote-access/ssh/unix.md"}}{\fldrslt https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/remote-access/ssh/unix.md}}
\fs48 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb5 You can use SSH to connect to your Raspberry Pi from a Linux computer, a Mac, or another Raspberry Pi, without installing additional software.\cb1 \
\cb5 You will need to know your Raspberry Pi's IP address to connect to it. To find this, type\'a0
\f2\fs28 \cb6 hostname -I
\f1\fs32 \cb5 \'a0from your Raspberry Pi terminal.\cb1 \
\cb5 If you are running the Pi without a screen (headless), you can also look at the device list on your router or use a tool like\'a0
\f2\fs28 \cb6 nmap
\f1\fs32 \cb5 , which is described in detail in our\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/remote-access/ip-address.md"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 \ul \ulc7 \strokec7 IP Address}}\'a0document.\cb1 \
\cb5 To connect to your Pi from a different computer, copy and paste the following command into the terminal window but replace\'a0
\f2\fs28 \cb6 <IP>
\f1\fs32 \cb5 \'a0with the IP address of the Raspberry Pi. Use\'a0
\f2\fs28 \cb6 Ctrl + Shift + V
\f1\fs32 \cb5 \'a0to paste in the terminal.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs28 \cf2 \cb6 ssh pi@<IP>\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf2 \cb5 If you receive a\'a0
\f2\fs28 \cb6 connection timed out
\f1\fs32 \cb5 \'a0error it is likely that you have entered the wrong IP address for the Raspberry Pi.\cb1 \
\cb5 When the connection works you will see a security/authenticity warning. Type\'a0
\f2\fs28 \cb6 yes
\f1\fs32 \cb5 \'a0to continue. You will only see this warning the first time you connect.\cb1 \
\cb5 In the event your Pi has taken the IP address of a device to which your computer has connected before (even if this was on another network), you may be given a warning and asked to clear the record from your list of known devices. Following this instruction and trying the\'a0
\f2\fs28 \cb6 ssh
\f1\fs32 \cb5 \'a0command again should be successful.\cb1 \
\cb5 Next you will be prompted for the password for the\'a0
\f2\fs28 \cb6 pi
\f1\fs32 \cb5 \'a0login: on Raspbian the default password is\'a0
\f2\fs28 \cb6 raspberry
\f1\fs32 \cb5 . You should now be able to see the Raspberry Pi prompt, which will be identical to the one found on the Raspberry Pi itself.\cb1 \
\cb5 If you have set up another user on the Raspberry Pi, you can connect to it in the same way, replacing the username with your own, e.g.\'a0
\f2\fs28 \cb6 eben@192.168.1.5
\f1\fs32 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs28 \cf2 \cb6 pi@raspberrypi ~ $\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf2 \cb5 You are now connected to the Pi remotely, and can execute commands.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl520\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf2 \cb5 X-forwarding\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf2 \cb5 You can also forward your X session over SSH, to allow the use of graphical applications, by using the\'a0
\f2\fs28 \cb6 -Y
\f1\fs32 \cb5 \'a0flag:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs28 \cf8 \cb6 \strokec8 \shad\shadx0\shady-20\shadr0\shado255 \shadc0 ssh \cf9 \cb10 \strokec9 \shad\shadx0\shady-20\shadr0\shado255 \shadc0 -\cf8 \cb6 \strokec8 \shad\shadx0\shady-20\shadr0\shado255 \shadc0 Y pi@\cf11 \strokec11 \shad\shadx0\shady-20\shadr0\shado255 \shadc0 192.168\cf12 \strokec12 \shad\shadx0\shady-20\shadr0\shado255 \shadc0 .\cf11 \strokec11 \shad\shadx0\shady-20\shadr0\shado255 \shadc0 1.5\cf8 \strokec8 \shad\shadx0\shady-20\shadr0\shado255 \shadc0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \shad0 Note that\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://support.apple.com/en-gb/HT201341"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 \ul \ulc7 \strokec7 X11 is no longer present on Macs with OSX}}, so you will have to\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.xquartz.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 \ul \ulc7 \strokec7 download}}and install it.\cb1 \
\cb5 Now you are on the command line as before, but you have the ability to open up graphical windows. For example, typing:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs28 \cf8 \cb6 \strokec8 \shad\shadx0\shady-20\shadr0\shado255 \shadc0 idle3 \cf9 \cb10 \strokec9 \shad\shadx0\shady-20\shadr0\shado255 \shadc0 &\cf8 \cb6 \strokec8 \shad\shadx0\shady-20\shadr0\shado255 \shadc0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \shad0 will open up the Python editor IDLE in a graphical window.\cb1 \
\cb5 Typing:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs28 \cf8 \cb6 \strokec8 \shad\shadx0\shady-20\shadr0\shado255 \shadc0 scratch \cf9 \cb10 \strokec9 \shad\shadx0\shady-20\shadr0\shado255 \shadc0 &\cf8 \cb6 \strokec8 \shad\shadx0\shady-20\shadr0\shado255 \shadc0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \shad0 will open up Scratch.\cb1 \
\cb5 For further documentation on the\'a0
\f2\fs28 \cb6 ssh
\f1\fs32 \cb5 \'a0command just enter\'a0
\f2\fs28 \cb6 man ssh
\f1\fs32 \cb5 \'a0into the Terminal.\cb1 \
\cb5 To configure your Pi to allow passwordless SSH access with a public/private key pair, see the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/remote-access/ssh/passwordless.md"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 \ul \ulc7 \strokec7 passwordless SSH}}\'a0guide.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\qr\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf2 \cb13 \
}